---
title: "Mahakala and KalaBhairava - Simplified"
slug: "mahakala-and-kalabhairava-simplified-2"
date: "2025-07-14T21:22:01.000Z"
feature_image: "/images/2025/07/upscaled_7gqwxv7j.jpg"
layout: "post.njk"
---

<p>Mahakala is complete latent passive lying energy mass. This is Shiva's complete energy lying latent, it doesn't move. Mahakala, it is the time itself, that is why Mahakala is called the Mahakaleshwar, the complete embodiment of time itself.<br></p><p>The only thing constant is Mahakala, we are the ones who's, you know, all this earth is rotating around this, there's a day, there's a night, and all that is for us, Mahakala is always constant. Mahakala is without the presence of his Shakti, his Shakti isn't within him, he is complete embodiment of Shiva, he is the Yogi.<br></p><p>Mahakala is like the biggest nuclear reactor on earth and full of energy. But the energy is within. There is no energy coming out.</p><p>The Guru Tattva within Shiva is Kalabhairava, He is not just Shiva, he is also Shakti. Kalabhairava, when he spouts out of Shiva's third eye, it is Mahakala with Shakti moving. Not lightened. It's moving. Kala Bhairava, the potential energy meets Shakti. Adi Shakti. And it moves. </p><p>Kalabhairava embodies within him not just Mahakala, he also embodies Shakti. If this is Kalabhairava, he embodies in him the Dasa Mahavidyas.</p><p>Because he is the main form of Shiva that gives us the Dasa Mahavidyas, the 10 Mahavidyas. The first spouting of Adi Shakti into a specific form is Ma Kalika.</p><p>He is going to enter your head and tell you things because he is not latent.</p><p>So that is what makes Kalabhairava the most potent, most potent form of Shiva imaginable. When you start the Upasana of Kalabhairava, you are by default already into the path of Shakti Upasana. It is not going to be outside you. </p><blockquote>                When Mahakala gets up and moves with Shakti, Kala Bhairava.<br>                         He also shows you what it is to own Shakti within you.</blockquote><p>Jai Kala Bhairav Baba, Jai Ma Adya Mahakali</p><p>summarized version of Praveen Anna teachings. Watch him on YT. </p>