---
title: "Ode to Adya Maa from a Ganda bacha (wayward child)"
slug: "ode-to-adya-maa-from-a-ganda-bacha-wayward-child"
date: "2025-03-25T22:42:14.000Z"
tags: ["Poems"]
feature_image: "/images/2025/03/2be46b48-a997-4700-9ce8-c7d6e33cc41da.png"
layout: "post.njk"
---

<p>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma ami tomar andha bhakta tumi Omar shonu Ma.<br>People see you as UGRA, but you are the most beautiful, Shyama and Soumya.<br>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma ami tomar andha bhakta tumi amar shonu Ma.</p><p>You sent Batuka as my elder brother and swarnakarshana; Kala, Krodha and Chanda Bhairava to prepare for entry in 5th head.<br>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma ami tomar andha bhakta tumi amar shonu Ma.</p><p>I feared you listening to naysayers and not truth sayers like my wife. Maybe I wasn't ready or maybe Kala wasn't on my side. You still came in different roopas Laxmi, Parvati, Tara, Bhuvaneshwari and Durga nudging me closer putting balm on my irrational fear. When Kala was on my side you revealed Bhadrakali, Mahakali, Chamunda, DakshinaKali and SITA.<br>But it was always you Adya Ma, I realize that now.<br>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma please forgive your bhakta I know I am stupid, and you are my Soumya Ma.</p><p>Throughout my life you were with me in valleys and mountains.<br>I didn't realize you were with me when the vasthraharans happened or when I kept entering chakravyuh after chakravyuh against thy advice, but you still showed the exit; made sure I got out alive.<br>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma I am your Ganda bacha you are my Ma Krishna.</p><p>I looked for ways to call you, found and tried the eccentric and exotic. From kreem to vicche and gayatris to Kunjika’s. But you finally gave me the KISS and everything became clear.<br>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma I am your illiterate bhakta and you are my guru Ma.</p><p>I offered you my tears, heartache and thoughts as offering along with all the usual neivedyas. You took it all as the photo and as the squirrels, the birds and the lone racoon that comes at night.<br>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma I am your simple bhakta and you are para prakriti amma.</p><p>I know in my heart that I prayed to you in the form that left, hence the tongue and brain remember and recite the Stotram the fastest. Now you are back in the Skanda shetra with New stavas, dhyanas and Vidhi’s. Blood, sweat, tears and time are all your amma.</p><p>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma thank you for guiding Guru Praveen to light the beacon of the lighthouse so our wayward souls can come ashore in your new shetra.<br>Kali Ma Kali Ma Kali Ma You are my Shyama Ma, and I am your Ganda bacha.</p><p>Om Shri Gurubhyo Namah<br>Jai Ma Adya<br>Jai Bhairava</p>